I. FBX Import Settings

First: 
Turn every toggle off.

Then:
Vertex Color Import Option: Replace.
Transform Vertex to Absolute: On.
Import Mesh LODs: On or Off, depending on if Export LODs is turned on in Houdini on the VAT ROP.
Normal Import Method: Import Normals and Tangents.
Import Uniform Scale: 1.0.
Convert Scene: On.
Override Full Name: On.
Material Import Method: Do Not Create Material.
Reorder Material to Fbx Order: On.


II. Texture Settings

1. In Content Browser, select multiple textures.
2. Rght-click on any selected textures and go to Scripted Asset Actions.
3. Select either "SideFX VAT Set HDR Textures" or "SideFX VAT Set Non HDR Textures" 
to match what is selected on VAT ROP > Settings > All Modes > Texture Format.
4. Hit Ctrl+S on selected textures to confirm. You can quickly verify that the correct 
settings have been applied by hovering your cursor above a texture and see if Filter
has been set to "Nearest". If it has, then everything else will have been set correctly too.
5. In Unreal Engine, sometimes there are issues with power-of-two textures that have 
data in their alpha channels, in which case, consider using "SideFX VAT Set HDR Textures" 
even if you exported those textures in non-HDR formats in Houdini.


III. Real-Time Data File

VAT 3.0 normally does not require exporting the Real-Time Data file.
That is now a legacy workflow, but you may still use that workflow if you want to.

You definitely have to use the legacy workflow in order to apply VAT materials to 
instanced meshes (ISM/HISM) or mesh particles.

You probably should use the legacy workflow if your animation spans a huge area.

1. On the VAT ROP, go to Advanced, turn on Support Real-Time Instancing.
2. Render your assets.
3. In the UE Material Instance, turn on Support Legacy Parameters and Instancing.
4. Enable all six parameters now appearing below Support Legacy Parameters and Instancing.
5. Follow their tooltip to batch-set their values (all six bound parameters share the same tooltip).


Notes:
1. VAT stands for Vertex Animation Textures. 
2. ROP stands for a Houdini Render Operator, found in the /out network or any ROP Network node.