= Labs Disc Generator =

#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: labs::disc_generator
#icon: SOP/circle
#tags: sidefxlabs, model, sidefxlabs

""" Create a polygon disc with UVs and normals """

The disc generator wraps up some common functionality for generating discs for realtime vfx (think AOE's or muzzle flashes). You can quickly set the inner and outer radius, modify the profile and add noise to shape the disc for multiple use cases. UV's are automatically laid out and adjusted with override controls. Add vertex colour based on u or v to drive material parameters in your game engine.

@parameters
    == Settings ==
    Inner Radius:
        Distance from the centre of the object for the inner circle.
    Outer Radius:
        Distance from the centre of the object for the outer circle.
    Arc Start:
        Start point of the arc in degrees, relative to the x-axis.
    Arc End:
        End point of the arc in degrees, relative to the x-axis.
    U Segments:
        Number of polygon segments around the disc.
    V Segments:
        Number of polygon segments from the centre to the outer edge of the disc.
    Rotate UVs 90:
        This essentially flips the u and v direction of the UVs.
    U Range And Bias:
        The first two components set the coverage of the UVs in the u direction. The third component distorts the UVs using a power function.
    V Range And Bias:
        The first two components set the coverage of the UVs in the v direction. The third component distorts the UVs using a power function.
    Inner Height:
        Height of the inner circle along the y axis.
    Outer Height:
        Height of the outer circle along the y axis.
    N Cusp Angle:
        When computing vertex normals, if normals of vertices around a single point are less than or equal to this angle (in degrees) apart from each other, they will be averaged together, weighted by the vertex angle in each polygon.
    Ramp Multiplier:
        Increase or decrease the effect of the profile ramp.
    Curve Ramp:
        Use the ramp to modify the shape of the disc.
    == Noise ==
    Add Noise:
        Enable Perlin noise distortion of the geometry.
    Noise Intensity:
        Displacement amount.
    Noise Scale:
        Scale the noise independently in each axis.
    Noise Octaves:
        The number of composited noise layers.
    Add UV Noise:
        Distort the UVs with noise.
    UV Frequency:
        Frequency of the noise in texture space.
    UV Offset:
        Offset the noise position.
    UV Noise Intensity:
        Displace amount of UVs.
    == Vertex Colour ==
    Add Colour:
        Create a vertex attribute, Cd.
    V Colour Ramp:
        Switch the ramp from using the u direction to the v direction of the UVs.