= Labs Random Selection =

#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: labs::random_selection::1.0
#icon: random_selection
#tags: tech, model

""" Randomly selects a subset of input points or primitives. """

The Random Selection provides multiple intuitive ways to isolate, color, or group a random subset of input points or primitives.

@parameters
    Elements:
        What class of elements to operate on: points or primitives.
    Selection Mode:
        Exact Number modes output precise numbers of selected elements. Exact Number - Randomize Element Order scrambles the input element order before selection, and it is the only mode that does this. Probability evaluates selection separately on a per-element basis, so the final selection ratio and number are not precise and are affected by Random Seed. Periodic modes periodically select and then skip a certain number of elements following to the input element order. The numbers of selected and skipped elements in different periods can be constant or random.
    Ratio:
        The ratio of the number of elements to select to the total number of elements.
    Count:
        The number of elements to select.
    Probability:
        An individual element's probability of selection.
    Random Seed:
        Affects the selection pattern. In Probability mode, it also affects the final selection ratio and number.
    == Periodic ==
    Offset:
        Offsets the selection pattern.
    Select:
        The number of elements to select in the first part of every period.
    Skip:
        The number of elements to skip in the second part of every period.
    Select Min:
        The minimum number of elements to select in the first part of every period. The final number is randomly generated between the min and max on a per-period basis.
    Select Max:
        The maximum number of elements to select in the first part of every period. The final number is randomly generated between the min and max on a per-period basis.
    Skip Min:
        The minimum number of elements to skip in the second part of every period. The final number is randomly generated between the min and max on a per-period basis.
    Skip Max:
        The maximum number of elements to skip in the second part of every period. The final number is randomly generated between the min and max on a per-period basis.   