= Labs Cylinder Generator =

#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: labs::cylinder_generator
#icon: SOP/tube
#tags: model, sidefxlabs

""" Create a tube from a curve, with uv's and normals. """

The cylinder generator wraps up some common functionality for generating tubes for realtime vfx. You can quickly set the inner and outer radius, modify the profile and add noise to shape the tube for multiple usecases. UV's are automatically laid out and adjusted with override controls. Add vertex colour based on u or v to drive material parameters in your game engine.

@parameters
    == Settings ==
    Cap Ends:
        Create end caps on the tube.
    Inner Radius:
        Distance from the centre of the object for the starting circle.
    Outer Radius:
        Distance from the centre of the object for the end circle.
    Arc Start:
        Start point of the arc in degrees, relative to the x-axis.
    Arc End:
        End point of the arc in degrees, relative to the x-axis.
    Add Twist:
        Offset each segment based on the twist value
    Twist:
        Rotation value for each segment, measured in rotations.
    U Segments:
        Number of polygon segments around the tube.
    V Segments:
        Number of polygon segments along the tube.
    Rotate UVs 90:
        This essentially flips the u and v direction of the uv's.
    U Tiling:
        Repeat the uv's in the u direction for tiling effects.
    V Tiling:
        Repeat the uv's in the v direction for tiling effects.
    U Range And Bias:
        The first two components set the coverage of the uv's in the u direction. The third component distorts the uv's using a power function.
    V Range And Bias:
        The first two components set the coverage of the uv's in the v direction. The third component distorts the uv's using a power function.
    N Cusp Angle:
        When computing vertex normals, if normals of vertices around a single point are less than or equal to this angle (in degrees) apart from each other, they will be averaged together, weighted by the vertex angle in each polygon.
    Ramp Multiplier:
        Increase or decrease the effect of the profile ramp.
    Curve Ramp:
        Use the ramp to modify the shape of the tube.
    == Noise ==
    Add Noise:
        Enable perlin noise distortion of the geometry.
    Noise Intensity:
        Displacement amount.
    Noise Scale:
        Scale the noise independantly in each axis.
    Noise Octaves:
        The number of composited noise layers.
    Add UV Noise:
        Distort the uv's with noise.
    UV Frequency:
        Frequency of the noise in texture space.
    UV Offset:
        Offset the noise position.
    UV Noise Intensity:
        Displace amount of uv's.
    == Vertex Colour ==
    Add Colour:
        Create a vertex attribute, Cd.
    V Colour Ramp:
        Switch the ramp from using the u direction to the v direction of the uv's.
    