= Labs Quick Material =

#type: node
#context: sop
#internal: labs::quickmaterial::2.0
#icon: quickmaterial
#tags: sidefxlabs,  model

""" The QuickMaterial sop is a convenience tool that allows you to very easily set up PBR materials. """

The QuickMaterial sop is a convenience tool that allows you to very easily set up PBR materials. The materials you can create using this SOP are the principledshader, and the Labs MatCap shader. The tool does not offer any additional benefits over creating your own in the MAT context besides configuration speed.
Also important to know is that this node does not create actual material nodes, but uses the `material_override` attribute to create variations. 

@parameters
    Switch to Original Materials:
        Pressing this button will change this tool to use the older version, which creates actual material nodes instead of `material_override` attributes.
    Use MikkT:
        Enables or disables the generation of MikkT tangents for the geometry the viewport needs. Disabling makes this node faster on dense geometry, but will also disable proper rendering of normalmaps.
    Materials:
        This multiparm controls how many materials should be created and assigned to the input mesh.
    Material Type:
        This allows you to specify what material you want to assign to the geometry.
    Material Name:
        This sets the material name for the generated MAT shader.
    Group:
        This allows you to assign the created shader to only a specific set of primitives when needed.
    == Principledshader ==
    BaseColor Texture:
        Sets the texture used for basecolor.
    Tint:
        This is the tint with which the basecolor texture gets multiplied.
    Opacity Texture:
        Sets the texture used for opacity.
    Normal Texture:
        Sets the texture used for the normals.
    Flip Y:
        This allows you to flip the Y channel of the normalmap specified in "Normal Texture".
    Rounded Edge:
        Allows the toggling on of the rounded edge shader.
    Radius:
        Controls the radius for the rounded edge in the shader.
    Mode:
        Controls the type of edges which should be included in the rounded edge detection.
    Roughness Texture:
        Sets the texture used for roughness.
    Roughness:
        This functions as a scalar for the roughness texture when supplied. If there is no roughness texture supplied, this functions as a constant roughness value.
    IOR:
        Sets the Index of Refraction of the material.
    Occlusion Texture:
        Sets the texture used for ambient occlusion.
    Tint Intensity:
        Controls the intensity for ambient occlusion to be applied.
    Metallic Texture:
        Sets the texture used for metallic.
    Metallic:
        This functions as a scalar for the metallic texture when supplied. If there is no roughness texture supplied, this functions as a constant metallic value.
    == Labs Matcap ==
    MatCap Texture:
        Sets the texture used for the matcap calculation.
    Use MatCap Alpha:
        Enables/Disables the use of the alpha channel in the matcap shader.
    