I. FBX Import Settings

For simplicity, first turn every toggle off, and then set the following...

Vertex Color Import Option:     Replace
Transform Vertex to Absolute:   On
Import Mesh LODs:               Depends on if Export LODs is turned on in Houdini on the VAT node
Normal Import Method:           Import Normals and Tangents
Import Uniform Scale:           1.0
Convert Scene:                  On
Override Full Name:             On
Material Import Method:         Do Not Create Material
Reorder Material to Fbx Order:  On




II. Texture Settings

1. In the Content Browser, select multiple textures.

2. Rght-click on any selected textures and go to Scripted Asset Actions.

3. Select either Houdini Config Textures for VAT (HDR) or Houdini Config Textures for VAT (SDR) to match 
Settings > All Modes > Texture Format on the VAT node in Houdini.

4. Hit Ctrl+S on selected textures to confirm the changes.

5. In Unreal, sometimes there are issues with power-of-two textures that have data in their alpha channels, 
in which case, consider using Houdini Config Textures for VAT (HDR) even if you exported those textures in 
SDR (non-HDR) formats in Houdini.




III. Static Mesh Settings

If there are tiny holes, tearing and flickering in your animation, particularly with the Dynamic Remeshing mode, 
consider open the mesh with the Mesh Editor, and then turn on LOD0 > Build Settings > UE4 Compatible UVs.




IV. Real-Time Data (JSON) File

VAT 3.0 normally does not require the Real-Time Data file, but you may still export it in certain situations:

A. You definitely have to use the legacy workflow in order to apply VAT materials to 
instanced meshes (ISM/HISM) or mesh particles.

B. You probably should use the legacy workflow if your animation spans a huge area.

Steps:

1. On the VAT node, go to Advanced, turn on Support Real-Time Instancing.
2. Render your assets.
3. In the UE Material Instance, turn on Support Legacy Parameters and Instancing.
4. Enable all six parameters now appearing below Support Legacy Parameters and Instancing.
5. Follow their tooltip to batch-set their values (all six bound parameters share the same tooltip).